# What is a blockchain?

A blockchain is a distributed, immutable, (hopefully) decentralized, peer-to-peer ledger that exists across a network of nodes. It acts as an accessible, transparent distributed database that keeps track of all transactions in blocks. If you were to enter transactions into a spreadsheet, a block would be akin to a cell. Information such as the transaction amount, sender address, recipient address, hash, and timestamp are recorded and encrypted into the blockheader - a hexadecimal number created through the blockchain's hashing function. The hash from each block is used in the subsequent block such that the ledger becomes a chain of blocks, hence the name blockchain. The information stored on previously chained blocks cannot be altered since every block is included in the newest block's hash.

# What is Proof of Work (PoW)?
Proof of work (PoW) is a form of cryptographic proof wherein one party (the prover) proves to the others (the verifiers) that a certain amount of a specific computational effort has been expended. With respect to blockchains, PoW is a popular consensus mechanism, popularized by Bitcoin and Ethereum, where miners compete to append blocks and mine new currency. Each miner experiences a success probability that is proportional to the computational effort that they have expended. The purpose of PoW is not proving that certain work was carried out but deterring manipulation of data by establishing large energy and hardware-control requirements to be able to do so

# I thought you already coded your own blockchain?
I coded [IchiChain](https://github.com/0xIchigo/IchiChain), a rudimentary Proof of Stake blockchain coded in Python, in August of 2022. Prior to starting it, I had created my own PoW blockchain written in JavaScript. This PoW blockchain is an improvement upon my original JavaScript creation within the context of learning and mastering Rust. It is meant for educational purposes only and is not production-ready code.